UM Readme
By: George Pesmazoglou and Vivek Ramchandran

We received help from various TAs, but most of the help came
from the TA Wesley Wei.

To the best of our knowledge, everything has been correctly implemented.

The only significant departure from our design is our creation of a
struct.  We had initially planned to have a sequence of arrays (with
the arrays holding the words), but we ran into some problems when 
working with the size of each of the arrays.  We made a struct that holds
an array and a size, and we filled the sequence with that struct instead.
Other than this deviation, we followed our design.

queue, create array, initialize array - segment

all but process and setup registers

Below, the architecture of the system is described:  There will be a um.c
file that contains the main function and three interfaces with their
respective implementations. The Segment interface will model the memory.
Every memory segment will be represented by a struct holding an array and
the size of the array, and every struct is an element of a Hanson sequence.
The segment identifiers of segments that have been unmapped will be stored
in a queue, in order to be reused. Creation of the queue and the struct are
private, while everything else is shared. I/O device will read in the .um 
file and save all the instructions in segment 0, as well as writing the 
output to a file or standard output. It will also be used along with some of
the instructions (as output). Processor will contain a function for each of
the 14 instructions. Its parameter will be a word.  Registers will be declared
globally in this file and will be represented by an array of length 8, that
contains words. Everything that is done in Processor will be private other
than a function that calls all the other private functions. The program 
counter’s only purpose is to iterate through the different instructions, 
and can be simply just the counter in a for loop. Um will be the file 
containing the main function. It will use the I/O device to save the program
to be run on segment 0, then will go through that segment, word by word and
call the processor to execute the instructions.

We were unfortunately not able to test our UM program in Halligan, so we are
not quite clear on the exact amount of time our program takes to run as our
devices will be very different than the lab computers. If we had been able
to test it, we would have an answer to how long our UM takes to execute 50
million instructions, but we are not sure.

UM Unit Tests:

TEST DESCIRIPTION

halt - this UM unit test makes sure that halt works by calling it.

halt-verbose - this UM unit test makes sure that halt, loadval,
and output are all working by calling them on the first register.

print_six - this UM unit test makes sure that input, output, loadval, add,
and output are working by calling them one at a time.

unit_test_conditional - this UM unit test makes sure that loadval,
conditional move, and output work by calling them consecutively.

math_test -  this UM unit tests makes sure that loadval, add, multiply,
divide, and nand work by calling them consecutively.

l_prgm - this UM unit test makes sure that we can load the program by
calling it.

io_programload - this UM unit test extensively calls loadval, input, 
and output to make sure that they are all working.

big_memory - this UM unit test tests map and unmap by repeatedly calling
map and unmap to make sure that the UM can handle lots of map and unmap
calls.

We spent roughly 25 hours on this assignment.  The first 4 were spent
analyzing the assignment, the next 6 were spent preparing the design, and the
last 15 hours were spent solving the problems after the analysis.